Hey, guys, what's up?
This is a marathon, and I welcome you to another tutorial on this course on Ruby.
And in this studio, we are going to continue on with the regular expression.
And in this story, we will cover two main topics that are related to regular expression.
The first topic is the look ahead and look behind concept.
And secondly, we are going to cover about anchors, which can be used with regular expressions as well.
So starting on with the first topic, that is look ahead and look behind.
Now, this is a more advanced technique that might not be available in all the regular expression implementations.
Ruby, regular expression engine is able to do this, so let's see how to take advantage of that.
So let's just move on and let us speak and see if there is a specific match before or after.
Now, these are basically the four kind of look ahead and look behind which you can use.
The first one is something like a question mark, then an equal design.
Then you're right in the pattern.
And that is known as a positive look ahead.
Then you have a question mark with a less than sine.
Then you have this equal design and the pattern and this is known as the positive look behind.
Then you have this question mark, negation, mark Bacterin and inherit basically that is known as the
negative look behind.
And it is basically opt in by only just changing this equal do with this negation mark.
And similarly, if you just change this equal to with a negation mark, as you can see right over here,
that is known as a negative look behind, which was positive.
Look behind with this equal to Mark.
So let's see some example for how I look ahead and look behind.
Concepts can be implemented with your.
Ed, so let's move on to Adam.
And we will see some examples, so let's see if there is a number that is preceded by at least one letter
or not.
So what we are going to do is that we are going to create a function.
So we are going to send him the function as X.
And we are going to just specify a question mark so that this method returns either true or false.
And this over here is going to receive a string and whatever it is, since it is going to return a string.
So sorry, not a string, but it is going to return a boolean value, either true or false or whatever
is going to be received in this ring.
We are going to convert it into a boolean value.
And you know how this is.
We had already covered that in the previous tutorial.
You know, that this basically converts whatever will be written over here in a boolean value, which
will be either true or it will be either false.
So here we are going to initialize a string.
So we are going to check the string with a pattern over here.
So we are going to specify that pattern over here.
Now, what we are going to do, use Ohare, is that we are going to use the positive look behind thing
over here, which means that we are going to write in Questionmark Lesbian Sine and Equal to Signable
Hill.
So here we are going to write in this index for the regular expression and in here what we are going
to write in, we are going to write in the questionmark, then we are going to write in the less than
sign and then the equal to sign.
And that is what is basically called as the positive look behind.
And then in the Syntex, as you have seen, that we have to then write in the pattern.
So let's say the pattern is this oakhill.
And we can specify a more veterans of war here, so let's say we also have the de Blasio here.
All right, so this means that we are going to pass in two string's because we have got two brackets
in the regular expressions index, so let's just end dysfunctional here and we are going to call in
the function X and we are going to pass in the parameters that is, let's say.
And we are going to let slip us in 99, so what this is going to do is that it is going to check if
there is a number that is preceded by at least one letter or not.
So if you just run this code or edit, run perfectly.
Now, all you need to do is just write in votes and it in brackets or help run this now.
And you can see that it has generated the true value.
So that is basically known as the positive look behind.
Then comes the concept of the Ruby regular expression class, not the regular regular expressions are
basically instances of the regular expression class.
Most of the time you won't be using this class directly, but it is good to know that you have this
class in Ruby.
So if you just remove this from here and if you just want to know the class for that, so you just ride
in this anything, go hell and you just ride in Dorte Class Wahib or underscored and you can see that
it has generated regular expression, which means that a class that is known as regular expression basically
exists.
Now, one possible use is to create a regular expression from a string.
So if you just write an.
Regular expression equal to RTG XP now.
We already have covered certain things, so this is basically O'Haire a module, so here we are going
to be using a module and we and using this over here, we are going to create a regular expression.
So you can just right now, in the previous case, you know that the syntax for regular expression is
something like this.
And you have to write in this area here.
But if you are using the regular expression class, then what you can do is that you can write in regular
expression, which is a module of the regular expression class dot new, and then you can specify whatever
is going to be in between right over here in these quotation marks over here.
You don't have to specify those slashes or help.
So that is also going to do your job, so if you just ride in boats are speed dot glasspool, he'll
run the school.
You can see that it has also generated the very same result.
That is a regular expression, which means that this area here is a regular expression.
Now, another way to create a regular expression can be using the person, each module.
So we just remove it from home.
And we'll hear what we are going to write and we are going to write in person at.
Ah, and then you can specify these curly brackets of a hair that basically stands for a lock, and
in here you can specify any kind of pattern of words, let's say is the pattern.
Now, if you just write in votes.
E expired last will here on the score, and again, it is going to generate regular expression.
So these are basically some of the ways in which you can initialize regular expressions and really know
how to basically format long, regular expression.
Now, complex ruby, regular expression can get pretty hard to read, so it will be helpful if you break
them into multiple lines.
Now we can do them by using the X modifier, which you have already covered in explanation.
But now this format also allows you to use comments inside your regular expression.
So to give you a very quick example for that, we will just remove this from here.
And we will just create a log format of Ohio, so we are going to write in log format and we are going
to make it equal to per cent R, which means that we are using the third Syntex.
Well, then you have to specify these brackets to Hill.
Now, in between, what you can do is that you can just ride in anything or help.
Now, in the previous guests, you were not allowed to basically use commands.
For example, if if you were using, let's say, this index over here and if you just specify a hashtag
ÁLFHEIÐUR, so you can see that it has not been converted into the regular, which means that it is
not being treated as a command for now.
So you cannot basically use the regular Astarita command spot with this index, nor can you do it with
the new one.
So if you just ride in, let's say hashtag AOL, so you can see that it has also converted this bracket
over here into a command, which is exactly what you don't want.
So basically these two syntaxes are just not able to help you out with the comments.
Moreover, they are also not helpful in creating multi-line or you can say the complex regular expression
you can create, but that is going to be very difficult to read.
So the best thing is to break down the complex regular expression into several lines so that it is easier
to understand.
And moreover, this syntax or press center is also going to allow you to add comments about him.
So let's say if you just remember the example where we were using the time, the time and message,
then you know that that was a very long line and it was a very complex right over there.
So what you can do over here is that you can just simplify it as.
Backslash deep and in the bracket, if you just remember, you had written to then that was for the
Rs and then you have to do this very same for the minutes.
Now, what you can do is that you can simply just come out of these brackets, Abargil.
And what you can do.
What you can do here is that you can just use a comment, so let's say we can just dive in the comments
that this is basically time.
What we have missed over here is that these should be the curly brackets, not these around brackets.
So this should be converted into the curly brackets.
And I guess that's good enough.
And yes, we also have to.
I guess there is some problem with, I guess, the condition of warheads.
That's why it is not treating this as a command.
So let's just create this over here again.
So we will just copy this.
And we will just remove this from here and we will create this stuff over here again, so we are going
to write in percentage are these brackets click, enter and just press control.
We and I guess that's good enough.
And now you can just ride in hashtag.
Dayme.
So you can just move it to a new line as well.
Just click, enter, and now you can just create your second one that was about the type, so you can
just write in backslash s and then you can just write in backslash W plus over hill.
And that is basically what is type.
And then finally, you have the message which you had initialised using the dot starick operator, so
you can just do it like that.
Now, that is the very same thing we already have covered in the previous tutorial.
But in this you can see that it is much more organized.
You can just have comments.
And the reason I get these comments are not just showing up is because I guess we have got some identifying
problem.
If you just rewrite this whole thing over here again, it is surely going to work out.
So this is basically the useful thing about the syntax or.
Now then comes some regular expression functions, which you can use and they are basically going to
aid you along with regular expressions.
So regular expressions can be used with many methods.
The first one is a split method.
Then we have the scan method and then we have the up and many more method.
So let's see an example of all those.
So just remove this from here and you can just try a rewrite it and it is surely going to work.
So let's say you want to match all words from a string using the let's say the scan function, that
was the first function.
So what we are going to do is that we are going to create a string.
Let's say we say this is a.
String and we write in DOT scan.
And we were just right in, let's say, W plus over here, and these are the closing ones for the regular
expression.
And if we just run this code and it's from perfectly, let's just store it in a variable and just.
Right.
And put six over here now run it.
And you can see that it says this is our.
So what it's going on over here is that we have matched all the words from a string using this method.
So it is going to scan the entire string and it is going to search word by word and it is going to print
each letter of a string in a separate line.
So that's what this is in a single line is is in a single line, is in a single line and string is also
in the single line.
So that is how you can use a scan function with Ruby regular expression, then you can use the scan
method to extract all the numbers from a string as well, so that what you can do is, for example,
you can just write and this is number one, two, three, four, five.
Let's say you have got this number here.
All right.
Does it got printed number one, two, three, four or five?
And you can instead of this W plus what you can do is that you can just write and D plus.
So if you just run the score, you can see that you have got one, two, three, four or five.
So that was how to basically extract all the numbers from a string.
So it is going to scan this entire string.
But since we have ridi plus and you know that the plus is for the range from zero to nine, so it is
going to search for anything that is from zero to nine in between the string.
So it found this over here.
That is one, two, three, four, five.
So it is going to just bring it out, store it in this variable X, and when you try and put sex over
here, it is going to print it out.
Then you can use the Jesus method to capitalize all words in a string.
So let's say you have the string that is X equal to the stuff over here.
So you can just write in the Jesus O'Haire.
And what you can do over here is that you have to first tell it that what you are basically referring
to, so we will just convert it back into a strength so that we can use WOFL.
So we are going to ride in the regular expression Centex and we are going to ride in a wild.
Then what you are going to do is that you are going to specify the these brackets actually brackets
over here and you are going to specify the bars over here, which means that now we want something to
go word by word.
So we are going to just write in a variable over here and we are going to write in w dot capitalize.
So what this is going to do is that it is going to grab one word at a time from this stranglehold.
And it is going to capitalize it and the loop is going to keep on trading for all the numbers or whatever
is in between this range.
So, you know, what is in between this range and if that is a part of this string as well, then it
is going to capitalize that.
So if you just run this.
All right, it says that we have got some kind of error that says capitalized is not a method, I guess
we have misspelled it is to see it the eyes.
I guess that's good enough.
Now run it.
And you can see that it has now just printed out our string and it has printed the first letter to be
capital.
You can see that this is capital and its capital is capital and its capital because w for the first
iteration is going to have this and it is going to capitalize the first letter of that, then it is
going to have the is word, then it is going to capitalize this Iowa here then for the third address
and it is going to store in it.
And since it is a single character, so it is going to capitalize is simply the new in the last iteration,
it is going to have string and it is going to capitalize this as Oakhill.
Then you can also validate an email address using the match function.
So how that is going to be done, what you are going to do is that you are going to write in an e-mail
address over here.
So let's say you just write in, let's say test.
At the rate of.
Let's say Yahoo!
Dot com.
So let's say this is some kind of e-mail address of a hill.
Now where you're going to do is that you are going to convert whatever is going to get matched with
this into a boolean value.
So if it is true, it is going to return.
True.
And if it is not, it is going to return false.
So we are going to write in to an addition signs over here and we are going to write an e-mail dot match.
And in here, we are going to specify all things one by one, so what we are going to do is that we
are going to specify this index for regular expression.
And in between this, we are going to first specify our capital here, which means that we want to include
almost everything that is from A to Z and also from small to small that then you can just write and
here backslash w dot.
Plus minus and outside this, what you can do is that you can just ride and plus at the rate of backslash
W plus.
Escaping the dot then plus.
And then on this Zadow Hill and finally, just close this, so if you just store it in a variable,
let's say X is that variable.
And it just right and put sex over here underscore, you can see that it has generated Jewel here.
So what's going on over here is basically this part of a hill is going to check this value over here.
Then this part of a hill.
Is basically going to check this value and finally, this part of a hill is going to get checked in
by this valuable hill.
So all the values since are perfect.
It is a perfect e-mail address.
So that's why it is going to simply generate.
So let's see if you have an invalid e-mail address, you just remove the dot from here.
You run the school, you can see that it has generated calls because you have used this Ohare, so it
should have a daughter here.
Similarly, if you just write and let's say nothing after this.
Now, run the school, you can see that it has again generated false if you just write an achievement,
O'Haire underscored, it is going to generate.
So if you just remove this aderet from here, run this, it is again going to generate false.
So if you just do anything that makes it an invalid email address, then it is going to generate false.
So this example basically uses the exclamation exclamation to convert our result into a ball in value.
True or false?
Alternatively, you can use the match method and Ruby two point four plus, which already does this
for you.
And it is also very, very, very fast.
So these are basically some of the methods that you can use on with a regular expression and they are
going to basically aid you in using regular expression.
Then comes the second part of this tutorial that deals with anger.
So these are some of the anchors which you can use in really the first one is the some kind of poverty
line, I guess.
And you have already covered that in the previous tutorial.
And you know that it is used for matching the beginning of a line.
Then you have the dollar sign, which you already have covered in the previous tutorial as well, that
is used for matching the end of the line.
Then you have backslash here, which you just use that is used for matching beginning of a string.
Then you have the backslash capital that that matches the end of the string, then backslash small that
that matches the end of the string.
And I guess you have used all of these, I guess just skipping the last three.
You have used the top all three of all six of those then backslash gee what capital G that matches the
first matching position then backslash B that matches the word boundaries when outside brackets and
then finally backslash capital B that matches the non word boundaries.
So in methods like String Gizab and String Skåne, which you already have covered, it changes on each
iteration.
Now it initially matches the beginning of the subject and in each iteration, it matches where the last
match is finished.
So you can just use all these anchors with the GST and the match functions as well.
So let me give you, I guess, one more example of this and then we will get on with this tutorial.
So let's say if you just remove this from here.
And you let's just write in a B.
And see over here and you use the Jezebel here.
And in the brackets, you just specify regular expression and you just write and nothing over here,
a comma, and then what you're going to write and you are going to write an underscore or help.
So if you just store it in a variable X.
Rhonda, as you can see that it says A, underscore B, underscore C. So what this is basically that
the GSA is accepting a second argument that is going to get placed in all of this, which means that
it is basically going to be a Connector's now in regular expression methods like match.
You can also use the offset, which is going to do your jobs as well.
So if you just remove this from here and you write and.
Hello, world of a hill, and you use the match method now.
And for that, let's just specify a comma here and then you specify since, let's say just three Woodhill.
And you run this code, you can see that it says a comma here.
So the reason behind this is that it has basically using that as an optional offset where it is going
to match where the search begins.
So that's how basically all of these methods can be used in Ruby over here with regular expressions.
So I hope you have understood the usage of all these functions as well as anchors.
So I guess that's it with this tutorial.
Thank you so much for watching.
And I'll see you guys in the next Attrill.